No, it's always talking about time for
the most part, right?
Or computational complexity.
I think, for the most part I call it,
in this class, computational complexity.
But I think, it's actually probably
referred to more, as time complexity, but
you can kind of more or
less tie those things together.
They're not totally the same,
but for the sake of this course,
they are totally same.
And it's the idea of,
if I give this more inputs,
how many more CPU cycles
is this gonna take,
how much longer is this gonna take, right?
And when I talk about Big O, and
when people talk about Big O,
without referring to what
they're talking about,
they're almost always talking
about time complexity.
There is another type of complexity
that's called space complexity or
spatial complexity.
And that's, basically,
how much RAM are you gonna take, RAM or
hard disk space, how much stuff do
you need to store, for an algorithm?
And sometimes this ends up
being really important,
this used to be extremely important
to me in my job at Netflix.
Because I was working on things
like Roku sticks, and PS3s, and
things like that, that had very,
very precious little bit of memory.
>> Will complexity be the same for
network transfers, as well?
Like the size of
the transfer you're making,
would that be evaluated as
spatial complexity, as well?
>> So the question is would
you have considered network
transfer to be the same sort
of thing as space complexity?
I don't think so, I think I would
consider that in a different vein.
You totally could consider that
in a Big O way, I just haven't.
But no, this was much more like,
how much stuff am I storing, locally?
And then you could probably consider
network traffic, and in a yet
different thing.
That's a good question,
I'll have to think more about that,
cuz I haven't really thought about it.
But, anyway, for the sake of this class,
we're just talking about how
much RAM you're taking, right?
How much stuff you're creating.
So yeah, when I was working at Netflix and
working on the Roku stick, the PS3,
all that kind of stuff, those devices
actually have plenty of CPU, right?
So they're not hampered in that particular
sense, but they just have no memory.
They don't give any of the programs
that are running on them no memory.
And so from when we were signing people up
on Netflix, that's what I used to work on.
We had to be extremely careful of
how much RAM we were taking because,
that could really hamper user's viewing
experience, or sign up experience,
in this particular case.
So that's why, you don't always have
to consider spatial complexity, but
when it's important it
tends to be very important.
So let's talk about that.
So if we're gonna do something
that's linear, right?
If you remember linear is Big O of N,
if it has linear spatial
complexity that would be say,
like if we had an array of ten items,
our algorithm would probably
create ten arrays, right?
So you can see here,
when we take an array, and
we make more arrays out of that array,
that just tends to churn up RAM space.
And for something like a PS3,
which is very, very memory limited,
that can be a bit of a problem.
Because if you're churning
through a lot of memory,
that ends up being a really
bad user experience, right?
So we were always talking about
the spatial complexity, and
we never wanted to do anything that
had linear spatial complexity.
But typically, the thing that you're
doing, is you're creating additional
arrays, that's what causes spatial
complexity, it's not always true, right?
You can be creating other
temporary variables but normally,
at least in the terms
of sorting algorithms,
it's gonna be arrays that are gonna
cause that spatial complexity.
Logarithmic, as you might imagine,
you create less overtime, right?
So if I have 10 arrays, maybe create 7
arrays, by 100 it'll create 12 arrays,
you can see this kind of like
this diminishing return.
That would be considered logarithmic.
Constant would, basically, what you'd say,
either if I have an array,
I'll create five arrays.
But if it's of length 1 million or length
10, I always create five arrays, right?
That would be considered constant, right?
Because it's the same
amount no matter what.
And let's talk about quadratic, this
is actually kind of an interesting one,
cuz this is something that I actually
did at one of my former companies.
Let's say we had to evaluate
the distance between two zip codes.
And a zip code is a, they more or less
exists all over the world on the sense of,
it's a number that refers to a parcel
of land in the United States, right?
So for example, I live in 9103, and
let's say, which is a zip code in Seattle.
Let's say I wanna calculate
the distance between that and
10001, which is I think is in New York.
You can see that I have
these two zip codes, and
I wanna calculate
the distance between those.
Now, let's say that computation is really
expensive, so we wanna pre-compute,
all of those various different
distances between each other.
Well, that says for
every item that I add to that database,
I have to now create an additional
item in the database, or sorry,
an additional item for
every other item in the database, right?
So if I have 10,000 zip codes in my
database and they add a new zip code to
the database, that means I need to
create 10,000 new items and store them.
This would be quadratic, right?
Because every item that
you add to the database,
that means they have to add
even more the next time, right?
And it just grows kind of out
of control at that point.
Now, we actually did this that one
of the companies that I worked at,
we only did it for
zip codes in the state of Utah.
But the reason we did that is because,
it was so expensive for
us to call an API to get that information
of the distance between two zip codes.
That it was cheaper for
us to just buy a really big database and
put it all in there, right?
But that to me was kinda funny,
cuz it was an example of
a quadratic spatial complexity.
Typically, you never wanna have
quadratic spatial complexities,
that's really the only time I've
ever seen it be appropriate.
So there's a great question on here, how
does this apply to functional programming,
because functional programming,
churns through a lot of stuff, right?
There's a lot of arrays being created and
destroyed.
The first thing I wanna say to you, is
that, normally it doesn't matter, right?
Normally, it doesn't matter that if
you're looping through 100 things or
10 things, or probably even 1,000 things,
you are creating and
destroying a lot of stuff, but
modern computers are pretty fast, right?
Even an old Android phone should be
able to handle that fairly well.
So normally, it doesn't matter.
But the second thing I wanna say,
is that, when it does matter, functional
programming is usually the first
thing you kinda have to refactor out,
because it does unnecessarily frequently
churn through a lot of memory.
For example, we had to basically
ban functional programming in that
Netflix TV code repo,
because of that reason,
we just could not afford to churn
through all of those arrays.
So yeah, rule number one, if it
doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, and
ignore it, right?
Rule number two is, yeah,
frequently you have to refactor out
functional programming style,
code when space is a concern.
Does that answer your question?
>> So basically, we can combine
different [INAUDIBLE], yeah, so?
>> Yep.
>> Use other style of programming,
yeah, okay, thank you.
>> Yep, for sure.
And we'll get into, I think,
my next section here is
actually on trade offs, it is.
But typically, you just wanna wait for
it to become a problem,
before you solve it, right?
People like to solve problems
before they have them,
and that's a really bad idea, right?
So wait for it to become a problem, and
then when it's the problem
then go refactor it out.
>> Premature optimization.
>> Yeah, premature optimization,
it's a mouthful.
[LAUGH] Yeah, so the question is what's
driving these constraints, right?
And I mean,
most frequently your boss isn't gonna know
where those constraints are gonna be.
So that's why it's on you to ask
a lot of these questions like, hey,
am I running on a low-end
Android device in rural America?
Or am I running on a super
computing cluster that has
basically infinite space and
computational power?
Cuz those are gonna be very
wildly different answers, right?
Or in this particular case,
I think the PS3 is a great example of,
you know that you're extremely
memory constrained, but
that PS3 processors was very,
very powerful, right?
So that means that anything that we could
shove towards this time complexity side,
I mean we could do really inefficient
things with the CPU because those cycles
were very cheap to us.
Whereas we had to be super conservative
with our memory usage, right?
Whereas, normally,
like when I'm coding for the cloud, right?
I mean, I work on Azure at the moment.
I can just throw more RAM at it,
RAM's cheap, right?
So I can use really inefficient
spatial complexity things.
The question you should be asking
yourself is, where is this running?
What kind of devices is this
going to be running on?
And how important is it to the user?
And how big of inputs am I expecting,
right?
Cuz if the answer is you're
only gonna be evaluating two or
three items at a time,
it just doesn't matter, right?
In which case,
write the simplest code possible.
So yeah, just to wrap up
here on spatial complexity.
Again, this is just another
ruler that I'm giving
you to measure your
approaches to problems.
So that you can decide,
based on whatever the the task is at hand,
to choose what kind of
algorithm you're gonna use.
And it's never gonna be like, well,
we're gonna use Quicksort, and
we're gonna do that.
Normally all this stuff that I'm about
to teach you in this course is actually
built into the language, and you don't
actually really need to know how to do it.
It's gonna be much more like, hey, we're
creating type ahead for our search bar.
And we can either pre-compute that with
trees, or we can do it on the fly and
just rely on the CPU to do that on
the fly, which is the correct thing to do.
And again, I hope your answer to
that question is, it depends, right?
Where's this gonna run?
What kind of devices,?
What are my users doing?
How big is that dataset, right?
Those are the kind of questions that I'm
hoping that I'm just gonna ram into your
head, so that you know to ask that
question continually is like,
give me more information.